{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1049\deflangfe1049{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\f38\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f51\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3432407}{\*\generator Micro
soft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\author AF}{\operator AF}{\creatim\yr2004\mo12\dy17\hr13\min54}{\revtim\yr2004\mo12\dy17\hr13\min55}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1281}{\nofchars7307}{\nofcharsws8571}{\vern24689}}
\margl1701\margr850\margt1134\margb1134 \deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot3432407 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3432407 \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\f1\fs16\cf1\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid3432407\charrsid3432407 FastReport 2.54
\par for Delphi 4-7,2005 & C++Builder 4-6
\par 
\par 
\par READ THIS FILE ACCURATELY BEFORE INSTALLING FR2.54!
\par 
\par 
\par VERY IMPORTANT! 
\par    Before installing, remove older packages of FastReport from the Delphi
\par component palette and remove paths to older version sources from
\par Tools->Environment Options->Library->Library Path!
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par TABLE OF CONTENTS
\par 
\par 1. Introduction
\par 2. Capabilities
\par 3. Installing
\par 4. Backward compatibility
\par 5. Changes
\par 6. Ordering
\par 7. Notes
\par 8. Credits
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 1. INTRODUCTION
\par    FastReport is reporting tool component. It consists of report engine,
\par designer and preview. It written on 100% Object Pascal and can be installed
\par in Delphi 4-7,2005 and C++Builder 4-6. Also available cross-platform version
\par FR CLX for Delphi 6,7 C++ Builder 6 and Kylix 1,2,3 - check out webpage to 
\par get latest information. 
\par 
\par    FastReport 2.54 is "try before buy". See "Ordering" topic for details.
\par 
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 2. CAPABILITIES
\par - Fast, compact and flexible code allows you to extend FR functionality.
\par   No additional DLLs needed.
\par - Built-in powerful and easy-to-use designer (also available in run-time).
\par - Suitable MSWord-like report preview with "Search text" and "Edit" functions.
\par - Set of most useful components: Text, Line, Picture, Shape, OLE, RichText,
\par   Chart, Barcode. You can also write your own components.
\par - Ability to export your reports to other formats (such as TXT, RTF, CSV,
\par   HTML, PDF and other). 
\par - Built-in Pascal-like language allows you write code without programming
\par   in Delphi. It allows you to create reports that can't be created in other
\par   tools.
\par - Script editor with syntax highligt.
\par - FR reports can contain dialogue forms that you can use to ask
\par   parameters before prepare a report. You can have as many dialogs as you need.
\par   FR uses the same designer for dialogs and have set of standart dialog
\par   controls like Button, Edit, CheckBox and other.
\par - Set of DB engines for FR allow you to create table/query/database components
\par   in run-time. Your reports can be completely independent of your application!
\par - FR can obtain data from tables and queries, arrays and data files - from
\par   any source. FR is not BDE-dependent, you can use it with *any* DB library
\par   that is based on standard TDataset component. You can also use FR with
\par   IB_Objects - powerful and wide-known library for Interbase DBMS.
\par - Localization in 21 languages. You can use FR in international applications.
\par - Full Bi-directional text output.
\par 
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 3. INSTALLING
\par 
\par    FR2.54 includes full source code. Trial version contains almost all sources
\par (only one compiled unit FR_Class.dcu / FR_class.obj ). 
\par ! DON'T CHANGE ANYTHING IN FR.INC FILE OF TRIAL FR VERSION !
\par 
\par 3.1. Run fr254.exe and follow to instructions of installation program
\par 
\par 3.2. FastReport supports a significant number of languages.
\par 
\par    FastReport has several language sets: English, German, French, Danish, 
\par Portuguese-brazil, Spanish, Dutch, Swedish, Turkish, Italian, Polish, Czech, 
\par Hungarian, Slovene, Catalon, Slovak, Russian, Chinese, Ukrainian. 
\par    Resources are located in ..\\FR\\RES folder. By default, FastReport library 
\par setups with English resources. To use German resources, copy the files with 
\par RES-extensions from ..\\FR\\RES\\GERMAN folder to ..\\FR\\SOURCE folder and 
\par recompile package (see more in setup.txt).
\par That way, you can make your application fully German, French etc
\par 
\par    WARNING! The old datamanager (TfrDataStorage) is outdated. It included in
\par this FR version, but will be removed in the next version. We highly 
\par recommended to stop using it, move to new components and convert your existing
\par reports.
\par 
\par 3.3. For recompile libraries see setup.txt
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 4. BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY
\par    .frf files from FR2.1...FR2.54 is compatible. You can use FR2.1 .frf
\par in FR2.4; but you can't use new .frf files in older FR versions and builds.
\par    See faq.txt if you want to open FreeReport 2.21 files.
\par    FR CLX files can be opened by FR2.45 version and higher. 
\par Since CLX and VCL uses different paper numbering you may need to change 
\par paper format after opening FR CLX report file. 
\par    Old datamanager (TfrDataManager) is not installed by default. Remove
\par comment from \{$DEFINE DATAMANAGER\} line in FR.inc file to install it.
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 5. Changes in FastReport v2.54:
\par 
\par - bug fixes
\par 
\par See full changes list in file changes.txt
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 6. ORDERING
\par    FastReport 2.54 is "try before buy". You can try trial version of 
\par FastReport2.54, which prints only one page of report with nag label 
\par "FastReport - unregistered". Full version of FR shipped with full source code.
\par    Single copy of FR2.53 costs $99. Site license (unlimited number of copies)
\par costs $990. You can register it with RegisterNow! or ShareIt online services
\par which accepts all kinds of payment. 
\par   Use this link for register: http://www.fast-report.com/en/buynow.php 
\par Registered users gets technical support and can upgrade to the next
\par version of FR with no additional payment (FR CLX is separate product, you need
\par to buy it even if you already registered FR 2.54).
\par 
\par See Dealers.txt for more information about our resellers in countries.
\par 
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 7. NOTES
\par    All units written by authors, except the following:
\par  - RichEdit editor taked from \\DEMOS\\RICHEDIT.
\par  - Delphi version determining taken from RX 2.60.
\par  - TfrSpeedButton component is based on RX TrxSpeedButton.
\par  - Barcode component (frBarcod.pas) is written by Andreas Schmidt
\par    and friends (freeware).
\par  - See also "CREDITS" topic.
\par 
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 8. CREDITS
\par 
\par Olivier Guilbaud <golivier@free.fr>:
\par  - Barcode add-in (FR_BarC.pas)
\par  - RoundRect add-in (FR_RRect.pas)
\par  - Interface with OpenQueryBuilder (FR_QBEng.pas)
\par 
\par Dmitry Statilko <dima_misc@hotbox.ru>:
\par  - Flat comboboxes (FR_Combo.pas)
\par 
\par Andrew Semack <sammy@profix.poltava.ua>:
\par  - Interface with IB_Objects
\par 
\par EMS Company, Alexander Khvastunov <avx@ems.chel.su>:
\par  - TfrIBXComponents
\par  - TfrFIBComponents
\par 
\par Michael Shmakov <misha@petrosoft.karelia.ru>:
\par  - TfrDAOComponents
\par 
\par Andrew Dyrda <andrewdyrda@chat.ru>:
\par  - Documentation
\par 
\par Konstantin Butov <kos@sp.iae.nsk.su>:
\par  - Idea and first version of TfrPrintGrid component
\par 
\par Sergey Repalov <ReSerg@mail.ru>:
\par  - TfrRTF_RS_ExportFilter
\par 
\par Oleg Kharin <ok@uvadrev.udmnet.ru>:
\par  - Full WYSIWYG support
\par 
\par Stalker <stalker732_4@yahoo.com>:
\par  - A lot of suggestions and bug reports
\par  - TfrAsaComponents and others
\par 
\par Boris Loboda <barry@audit.kharkov.com>:
\par  - Help with hosting
\par 
\par Akzhan Abdulin <akzhan@mtgroup.ru>:
\par  - Life-time "moderatorial [-]" in RU.DELPHI :))
\par 
\par Pavel Ishenin <webpirat@mail.ru>
\par  - RTF, HTM export;
\par  - TfrCrossView enchancements
\par 
\par Vasilij Kirichenko <fr2html@mail.ru>
\par  - Advanced HTML export;
\par 
\par Gord Knight <gknight3@cogeco.ca>
\par  - moderator of FastReport's yahoo group
\par 
\par Pierre du Parte <fr@finalfiler.com>
\par  - moderator of FastReport's yahoo group
\par 
\par Localization:
\par  - Carsten Bech <carsten.bech@teliamail.dk> (danish)
\par  - Wy <wy6688@163.net> (chinese)
\par  - Roberto Mambriani <rmambriani@fasanocomputers.com> (italian)
\par  - Bartlomiej Zass <zass@pro.onet.pl> (polish)
\par  - Bolek Umnicki <strato@polandmail.com> (polish)
\par  - Josep Mas <xci@jet.es> (catalan)
\par  - Nei <coopcred@leosoft.com.br> (portuguese-brazil)
\par  - Isaque Pinheiro <axial@escelsa.com.br> (portuguese-brazil)
\par  - Bobby Gallagher <bobbyg@indigo.ie> (english)
\par  - Francisco Purrinos <purrinhos@cif.es> (spanish)
\par  - Andreas Pohl <apohl@ibp-consult.com> (german)
\par  - Stefan Diestelmann <sd@itsds.de> (german)
\par  - Arpad Toth <ekosoft@signalsoft.sk> (czech, slovak)
\par  - Le Hung <lehung@main.antszbar.hu> (hungary)
\par  - Tochenjuk Oleg <frodo@uct.kiev.ua> (ukrainian)
\par  - Pierre Demers <dempier2@hotmail.com> (french)
\par  - Olivier Guilbaud <golivier@free.fr> (french)
\par  - Craig Manley <c.manley@chello.nl> (dutch)
\par  - Burhan Chakmak <bakisoft@nursat.kz> (turkish)
\par  - Jan W <jan@ideida.se> (swedish)
\par  - Primoz Planinc <info@planles.net> (slovene)
\par 
\par 
\par Also thanks to all FR users who sent bugreports and suggestions!
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par FastReports Inc. 
\par 
\par 
\par e-mail:   info@fast-report.com
\par web site: http://www.fast-report.com}{\f1\fs16\cf1\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid3432407\charrsid3432407 
\par }}